Now that I've given you a brief
overview of the basic Java
completable future
features, let's take a look
and see how we could actually
apply them in practice
to operate on big fractions.
This will also give us a
chance to once again underscore
the limitations with these
basic features, which
should come as no surprise
since, after all, they're
really not that much
different from what we get out
of the box with
conventional futures.
This example is going
to go ahead and multiply
big fractions with a
completable future.
And so you can see on
the right-hand side,
we're going to have a
visualization of the code
as an interaction diagram.
And on the left-hand
side, we're actually
to have the code itself.
So the first thing
we do is we go ahead
and we make ourselves
an empty future.
And then we go ahead
and create a new thread
and start it to run a
computation in the background.
As you can see, this computation
will go ahead and multiply
big fractions via big integers.
These computations
run concurrently.
So what we're ever
running the background
runs concurrently with ever
whatever comes after start.
And then we can explicitly
complete the future
with the result. And when
that happens, the call to join
will be able to return.
And we can go on
and do something
like convert it to
a mixed fraction.
This example, while
illustrating how easy it
is to program with
these basic features,
also underscores
the limitations.
So once again, as was the case
with classic Java futures,
you can't chain them fluently
to handle asynchronous results.
You can't trigger
them reactively.
You can't treat them efficiently
as a collection of futures.
All the same problems
with completable future
are basically still there
lock, stock, and barrel
with completable future for
the basic features section.
Moreover, the use of join
as a blocking call has
all the same downsides
to using get.
It tends to underutilize
processor cores.
It increases overhead.
And in fact, there is no
timeout version of join.
So if we're tempted to
use get, then we still
have all the same
problems we did before
with the vanilla futures, that
doing this is inefficient.
It's hard to figure out
how much time to wait.
It's just not the
right thing to do.
It's almost always
the wrong thing
to do to use timed access
to the results of futures.
Therefore, what we
really need are a way
to leverage the more advanced
features of computable futures.
And of course, it
wouldn't hurt to know more
about those features
so we can understand
how to use them
effectively in the programs
that we plan to develop.